---
title: "Romance Scammers and Marriage Swindlers"
description: "Investigations Plus has become a well-respected name in Toronto. This reputation is built on several key elements. First, there's a strong commitment to professional standards."
excerpt: "Investigations Plus. Exposing Fraud, Protecting Hearts. Follow the money: the Reality of Romance Scammers and Marriage Swindlers. Investigations Plus specializes in uncovering deception. We don’t just confirm instances of infidelity – we delve deeper to understand the underlying reasons by conducting thorough investigations and discreetly gathering evidence. Among those who exploit romantic relationships for financial gain, […]"
pubDate: "2024-02-10T12:25:42"
updatedDate: "2024-05-11T04:12:41"
slug: "romance-scammers-and-marriage-swindlers"
categories: ["marriage-romance", "private-investigation", "private-investigator", "scam", "tips-and-advice"]
tags: ["cybersecurity", "detectiveagency", "fraudprotection", "investigationservices", "lovescams", "marriageswindlers", "onlinedatingscams", "onlinesafety", "privateinvestigator", "romancefraud"]
taxonomy: {"categories": [{"slug": "marriage-romance", "name": "Marriage & Romance"}, {"slug": "private-investigation", "name": "Private Investigation"}, {"slug": "private-investigator", "name": "Private Investigator"}, {"slug": "scam", "name": "Scam"}, {"slug": "tips-and-advice", "name": "Tips and Advice"}], "tags": [{"slug": "cybersecurity", "name": "#CyberSecurity"}, {"slug": "detectiveagency", "name": "#DetectiveAgency"}, {"slug": "fraudprotection", "name": "#FraudProtection"}, {"slug": "investigationservices", "name": "#InvestigationServices"}, {"slug": "lovescams", "name": "#LoveScams"}, {"slug": "marriageswindlers", "name": "#MarriageSwindlers"}, {"slug": "onlinedatingscams", "name": "#OnlineDatingScams"}, {"slug": "onlinesafety", "name": "#OnlineSafety"}, {"slug": "privateinvestigator", "name": "#PrivateInvestigator"}, {"slug": "romancefraud", "name": "#RomanceFraud"}]}
author: {"id": 5, "name": "GC GC", "slug": "piplus"}
seo: {"title": "The Rise of Digital Private Investigations in Toronto | Investigations Plus", "description": "Investigations Plus has become a well-respected name in Toronto. This reputation is built on several key elements. First, there's a strong commitment to professional standards.", "canonical": "https://investigationsplusltd.com/the-rise-of-digital-private-investigations-in-toronto/", "ogTitle": "The Rise of Digital Private Investigations in Toronto | Investigations Plus", "ogDescription": "Investigations Plus has become a well-respected name in Toronto. This reputation is built on several key elements. First, there's a strong commitment to professional standards.", "ogImage": "/images/blog/2026/03/Private-investigations-1024x559.png", "ogType": "article", "ogLocale": "en_US", "twitterCard": "summary_large_image", "twitterSite": "@Investigat33144", "articlePublishedTime": "2026-03-24T11:01:00+00:00", "articleModifiedTime": "2026-03-24T11:04:11+00:00", "robots": {"index": "index", "follow": "follow"}}
legacyId: 4032
image: {"src": "/images/blog/2024/05/03-Romance-Scammers-Marriage-Swindlers-Investigation-Blog-Featured-Investigation-Plus-Private-Investigator-Toronto-Brampton.jpg", "alt": "03-Romance-Scammers-Marriage-Swindlers-Investigation-Blog-Featured-Investigation-Plus-Private-Investigator-Toronto-Brampton"}
---
<h4><strong>Investigations Plus. <em>Exposing Fraud, Protecting Hearts.</em></strong></h4>
<h2><strong>Follow the money: the Reality of Romance Scammers and Marriage Swindlers.</strong></h2>
<p>Investigations Plus specializes in uncovering deception. We don&#8217;t just confirm instances of infidelity &#8211; we delve deeper to understand the underlying reasons by conducting thorough investigations and discreetly gathering evidence. Among those who exploit romantic relationships for financial gain, there are various categories, including romance scammers, marriage swindlers, and gold diggers. Today, we&#8217;ll shed light on romance scammers and marriage swindlers.</p>
<h3><strong>Romance Scam Victims Lose Millions in Ontario: Canadian Anti-Fraud Centre Report</strong></h3>
<p>They typically deceive individuals for financial gain through online relationships. Romance scammers typically operate online, creating fake profiles on dating websites or social media platforms to lure victims into online relationships. They often use fabricated identities and photos to establish trust with their victims.</p>
<p>According to data from www.rcmp-grc.gc.ca, the Canadian Anti-Fraud Centre documented 1,249 complaints of romance scams in 2021, involving 925 victims from Canada, resulting in a total loss exceeding $50 million. This trend persisted into subsequent years, with additional cases reported. For instance, between January and March 2023, victims reported losses of nearly $500,000.</p>
<p>Romance scammers often manage multiple fraudulent relationships simultaneously to maximize their financial gains. In 2024, the Canadian Anti-Fraud Centre reported that 945 Canadians fell victim to romance scams, collectively losing $50,348,774, with Ontario alone accounting for $21 million in reported losses.</p>
<p>The reported instances of romance fraud likely represent only a fraction of the actual occurrences, as many victims choose not to report the crime due to feelings of shame, fear of ridicule, or denial. While approximately 82% of romance fraud victims are women, experts acknowledge that the true gender distribution may differ, as men may be less inclined to report such incidents.</p>
<h3><strong>Romance scammers typically employ sophisticated tactics to identify and exploit potential victims.</strong></h3>
<p>They gradually earning the victim&#8217;s trust and building rapport before broaching financial matters. Some scammers conduct extensive research on their targets, while others select victims randomly. Regardless of their approach, scammers prioritize establishing a sense of intimacy, and commonality with their victims before introducing financial schemes.</p>
<p>Romance scammers may engage in elaborate schemes, such as fake emergencies or promises of future meetings, to elicit financial support from their victims. Their primary goal is to deceive and defraud individuals for financial gain without ever meeting them in person or pursuing long-term relationships.</p>
<p>The consequences of falling victim to romance scams can be devastating, as victims often develop genuine emotional connections with the perpetrators. In addition to suffering financial losses, victims may experience profound feelings of shame and embarrassment.</p>
<h3><strong>Marriage swindlers typically exploit romantic partners through marriage fraud. </strong></h3>
<p>A marriage swindler is someone who specifically targets individuals for the purpose of marriage fraud or financial exploitation within the context of marriage. They enter into romantic relationships with the intention of marrying their victims and then defrauding them of assets, money, or property through deceitful means.</p>
<h4><strong>Red Flags: time to call Private Investigations Plus. </strong></h4>
<p>It is no secret that the primary financial activity today is concentrated in megacities, which also harbor the largest number of marriage scammers. Marriage Swindlers are excellent psychologists, actors, and dreamers. Even those who are not naive easily believe such characters and give their hearts, along with all their savings. They often use tactics such as manipulation, emotional coercion, or false promises of love and commitment to exploit their partners. The basic scenario of the behavior of marriage scammers is very similar to the actions of recruiters of totalitarian sects.</p>
<p>A lonely, attention-hungry person seeks a significant and sincere relationship. They tell the victim what they want to hear, and the victim literally dives into illusions of care and kindness. Then they gradually ask for something in return: to make a donation to the foundation of the holy temple (in the case of totalitarian sects), for example, or in the case of marriage swindlers, to lend money to the &#8220;shelter of abandoned kittens&#8221;. And, in most cases, no one dares to refuse: a person is even pleased to repay for the so-called kindness. Step by step, their appetite grows larger and larger, and the victims often find it difficult to say &#8220;no&#8221; because they become emotionally dependent on the marriage scammer. Additionally, they are typically afraid of potential publicity, gossip, and rumors.</p>
<h3><strong>Be careful and aware of marriage &amp; romance scammers</strong></h3>
<p>Their actions typically involve criminal behavior, such as marriage fraud or financial scams, and can have serious legal and financial consequences for their victims. After a while, when the donor’s wallet is empty, all property has passed into the hands of third parties, and their health is irrevocably damaged, they disappear from life. They discard the cherished person as dispensable material or even garbage. This is exactly what marriage swindlers do, for whom the other person is nothing more than a way to earn a living, a source of income, a kind of &#8220;pin code&#8221; for their bank account. They act in the same way as recruiters of totalitarian sects.</p>
<h4><strong>Gigolo in North America or Lapdogs in Europe</strong></h4>
<p>Among marriage scammers in big cities, there are so-called types “Gigolo” or “lapdogs” (in Europe). Traditionally, this is a young man from the service staff, surrounded by a single and wealthy woman: this could be a personal driver, her gardener, a handyman in her private home, a security guard from the office, etc. This type of man gradually becomes stylish, looks like a successful businessman, and is supplied with expensive toys. Gradually, next to this respectable lady, there is no longer a pool cleaner, but a neat gentleman with clean feet and dirty thoughts.</p>
<p>Initially, it is clear that such a relationship began out of convenience. But ladies so often live in illusions, believing that they are loved not because of money, but sincerely. They no longer remember that they created this prince with their own hands. Meanwhile, when he already has money, connections, his own condo, and a car, the gentleman disappears, and the lady is left with a broken heart.</p>
<p><strong>Please, note:</strong> <strong>the exchange of sexual services for money is legal in Canada. However, the act of purchasing sexual services is illegal under all circumstances.</strong></p>
<h2><strong>FAQ: How can Private Investigations Plus assists in cases involving &#8220;gigolo,&#8221; romance scammers, and marriage swindlers?</strong></h2>
<p>Private Investigators play a crucial role in helping victims of romance scams, marriage swindlers and lapdogs.  In any case, PIs are uncovering the truth, providing support, and assisting in efforts to hold the perpetrators accountable.</p>
<ol>
<li><strong>Verification of Identities.</strong><br />
Our private investigators can verify the identities of individuals met online. In fact, to confirm if they are who they claim to be. This involves conducting background checks, verifying social media profiles, and cross-referencing information.</li>
<li><strong>Investigation of Suspicious Activities.</strong><br />
If the victim suspects fraudulent behavior, Private Investigators can investigate the individual&#8217;s online activities. This includes communication patterns, social media interactions, and financial transactions, to uncover any red flags or inconsistencies.</li>
<li><strong>Surveillance.</strong><br />
Private Investigators provide surveillance to monitor interactions, track movements, and document suspicious behavior.</li>
<li><strong>Background Checks.</strong><br />
We conduct comprehensive background checks to uncover criminal history, financial issues, and other relevant information.</li>
<li><strong>Asset Searches.</strong><br />
Our team conduct asset searches to uncover hidden wealth or financial holdings that may indicate exploitation.</li>
<li><strong>Evidence Gathering</strong>.<br />
Our experts gather evidence, including financial transactions and communication records, to support legal proceedings.</li>
<li><strong>Legal Support.</strong><br />
Investigations Plus work with legal professionals to provide support in legal proceedings, including gathering evidence and providing expert testimony.</li>
</ol>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Investigations Plus. <em>Exposing Fraud, Protecting Hearts. </em></strong><strong>Call us today: <a href="tel: &quot;18887032912&quot;">1-888-703-2912</a></strong></p>
<p><strong><a href="https://investigationsplusltd.com/contact/">Contact Investigations Plus</a> today for discreet and expert investigation services.<br />
</strong><strong>Investigations Plus – <a href="https://maps.app.goo.gl/Nt2WMdKYpbJtSsJP6" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Google My Business Profile</a></strong></p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>#RomanceScammers #MarriageSwindlers #OnlineDatingScams #RomanceFraud #InvestigationServices #DetectiveAgency #PrivateInvestigator #SecurityServices #ScamPrevention #TorontoPI #CyberSecurity #FraudProtection #OnlineSafety #LoveScams</p>
